---
layout: post
title: "Mini Project 5 - FOCUS (Due 3/15 Friday at 12pm)"
date: 2019-03-09
published: true
---

*Project created by Paul Shao, with inspiration from Google Geolocation Demo Services

## Introduction and Project Overview
Congratulations on finishing the last lesson for the Android Training Program! Now that you're fully equipped with all the knowledge and tools to build awesome Android applications, let's start exploring a bit more adventurously.

In this project, you will be creating an application that allows MDB DevCore and Contract members to 100% focus on their work. In order to achieve this, your application will implement what we call a "**Quiet Hour**" functionality. How it works is that when you enter into the application, it will ask you to choose a set of designated locations as *FOCUS* locations. Once you confirm these locations and physically enter any of them in the future, your phone will be automatically turned into silent mode, allowing you focus on getting the job done! Once you leave the location, the application will turn your device back to normal by restoring your phone to the previous ring mode and volume.

## Project Structure
While daunting at first sight, I will help divide the project into different sections and provide guidance/hints along the way to help you conceptually understand how to tackle the design/implementation. Please read through the following descriptions very carefully. Pay attention to all the library references I mentioned, and makes use of any documentation/user guide links I've provided below.

Please also note that this project will also have one **milestone checkpoint** before the final deadline on Friday. The checkpoint is enforced to make sure that you are on the right track and are making solid progress toward a fully functionally and well-defined application. The checkpoint will be due **this Tuesday (3/12) at 3pm**. It will be worth around 10% of your overall project grade so please start on the project when you can ASAP.

### Part A. Knowing What We Want
A good application always starts with a clearly-defined outlines, indicating what activities and roughly what components/architecture will be utilized throughout the development process.

Consider what you should have to build this application and **answer the following questions** in a textfile you create. Name the textfile `outline.txt`

Here are the questions you should be addressing:
* Based on the outline/introduction of this project, what should be the first thing I will see once I open up the application?
* How can I search for, choose a set of designated locations, and display the result on the screen as a **scrollable list**?
* How can I turn my phone into silent mode?
* How can I detect my current location?
* List out all the classes and briefly describe what their intended functionalities/roles are.

Once you are done with answering these questions, you should start implementing the following parts:
* The `main activity` with a search bar that allows you to search for locations by their name (think about how you did that in **MP2**)
* The backbone/structure of a **scrollable list** of all the places that your query matches with.
* An `Utils` class for handling errors your application might encounter and for turning your phone into silent mode


